Security of a vehicle in common parking places has been a matter of concern since ages, along with security the overall maintenance causes great inconvenience to the user. This project is an attempt to design and develop a smart system to prevent theft and to determine the exact location of the vehicle in addition with smart maintenance and monitoring. An efficient automotive security and maintenance system is implemented which involves IoT sensors transmitting real-time data from the vehicle to the user's mobile device. Maintenance such as Vehicle Servicing is calculated based on distance travelled and amount of fuel consumed. It also measures the vehicle performance on various factors, these factors are then processed through advanced algorithms providing improved safety and security of the vehicle. IoT technology transmits the on-board and off-board data from the vehicle which can be used to predict upcoming issues and suggest methods to repair them. A unique Radio-Frequency Identification (RFID) Card is designated to each individual vehicle providing access and improving the overall security. The owner can lock or unlock his or her vehicle using the RFID card. The Global Positioning System (GPS) is installed in the vehicle to track the online and offline location. Global System for Mobile communication (GSM) is used for transmitting vehicle parameters. This complete system is designed taking in consideration the low range vehicles to provide them extreme security and maintenance
